# 2020 10 19 RTFR

## industry history hunt

### instructions

1. Select a historical magazine from mediahistoryproject.org. Just make sure it is 1) a magazine, not a book and 2) that it was published before 1968. 
2. Read your magazine cover to cover. Digitally flip through all of the pages. Look at both the articles and the advertisements. 
3. Find something you're curious about or never heard of. Then, use Wikipedia. Use Wikipedia to do a little more reading about at least one film, topic, person, product, etc. 
4. Write a 2-3 page reflection essay that answers these three questions: Your magazine is a snapshot of Hollywood's image at a particular point in time. What stories is Hollywood telling about itself in your magazine? What did you follow up on using Wikipedia? What perspective did you get from Wikipedia that you didn't get from the magazine, and vice versa? What's something that you were surprised to learn? 
5.  Submit via canvas your reflection (with a citation and link to your magazine) in a Word document.

### Magazine Titles

- Boxoffice 
- Broadcasting 
- Business Screen 
- The Film Daily 
- Filmland 
- Hollywood 
- The Hollywood Reporter 
- Modern Screen 
- Motion Picture 
- Motion Picture Daily 
- Motion Picture Herald 
- Moving Picture World 
- Picture-Play Magazine 
- Photoplay 
- Radio Age 
- Radio Digest 
- Radio and Television Today 
- Screenland 
- Sponsor 
- Variety

## my magazine i chose

### variety 138 no 8

#### interesting

First scientiflcally-devised for-< nuila for determining the effect of TV on film boxoflfice receipts dis- closes that for each 2% saturation of tele sets in an area, theatre grosses go down 1%. Consulting economist who ar- rived at the formula in research for Columbia Pictures also states in his report to the company that: 1. Films will lose 40% to 50% of their 1948 audiences to TV when tele saturation approaches that of radio in all areas, “unless Other factors intervene.'^ „ 2 Theatre boxoffice takV in the t S. for 1951 will be $1,441,000,- 000. a decline of 9.4% from the 1948 figure of $1,590,000,000. 3 Business in non-TV areas will he better in 1951 than in 1948 (by 5 4 r r ), while it will be off by 18.1% in TV territories. Non-TV areas will produce a total of $621,000,000 for the year and TV areas $820 000,000. Economist who did the research (Continued on page 15)

#### interesting 2

Flock of pix going into release during the next few months indi- cates that Hollywood is returning —-on a limited scale, at least—to the muiti-millioq dollaK epic. Al- though production austerity is con- tinuing in regard to m6st product, fall list hints a considerable loosen- ing of the reins. ^ The “colossals" include Wsmer Bros.' “Captain Horatio Hornblower," Metro's “Quo Vadis" and 20th’s “David and Bathsheba" on the immediate slate. Due next spring is Paramount's Cecil B. De- Milie special, “Greatest Show On Earth." Just below the “colossal" divi- sion are Walt Disney's “Alice in Wonderland" and Howard Hughes’ "Jet Pilot," both of which were produced on "super-budgets." Metro has another biggie, “Ivan- hoe," going into production in England, with a cast headed by Robert Taylor, Elizabeth Taylor, Joan Fontaine and George Sanders. Boxoffice returns over a recent period — despite television and other conditions adverse to pix — have demonstrated there still can be a payoff sufficient to warrant heavy coin outlays. This line of thinking would have been re- garded as economic suicide in 1948 ( Continued on 



#### 